RUN-11694-templates-file-added (#524)
run-ai/docs: docs/admin/admin-ui-setup/templates.md

---
title: Templates
summary: This article describes the templates form. This form allows explains what a template is, and where it is used..
authors:
    - Jason Novich
date: 2023-oct-22
---

> A template is a pre-set configuration that is used help quickly configure assets in the system. Using a template allow you to submit a workload based on template which has aggregated all relevant building blocks for your workload.

Author: @omerbenedictrunai @liohill Please review the added text.
```suggestion
A template is a pre-set configuration that is used help quickly configure assets in the system. Using a template allows you to submit a workload which has aggregated all the relevant building blocks for your workload. This helps optimze workload submission, especially in cases where workloads may need the same or very similar settings.
```

> A template is a pre-set configuration that is used help quickly configure assets in the system. Using a template allow you to submit a workload based on template which has aggregated all relevant building blocks for your workload.

Reviewer: This is not true: "A template is a pre-set configuration that is used help quickly configure assets in the system."

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A template is a pre-set configuration that is used to quickly submit workloads using existing assets.
A template can consist of all the setup a workload needs, thus allowing researchers to submit a workload in a single click.
```

Author: ```suggestion
A template is a pre-set configuration that is used to quickly configure and submit workloads using existing assets.
A template consists of all the assets a workload needs, allowing researchers to submit a workload in a single click, or make subtle adjustments to differentiate them from each other.
```

## Creating Templates

To create a template:

1. In the left menu, press *Templates*, then press *New Template*.
2. In the *Scope* pane, select a *Scope*.
3. In the *Template name* pane, enter a name.

> 4. In the *Environment* pane, select an environment from the list. Use the *Search environments* if you do not see your environment listed. Press *New environment* to add a new environment to the system. Press *More settings* to add an `Environment variable` or to edit the *Command* and *Arguments* field for the environment you selected.

Reviewer: we need to mention here that the environment is the only real mandatory asset to select in a template. In other words- the template is not obliged to state the data source or compute resource, but the environment is a must

Author: @liohill the template comes with a "default" environment variable. 
![image](https://github.com/run-ai/docs/assets/124490127/fc1d0e0d-53f3-434d-b9b8-1b741b85e0ca)

Author: > we need to mention here that the environment is the only real mandatory asset to select in a template. In other words- the template is not obliged to state the data source or compute resource, but the environment is a must

@liohill The envorinment variable comes as default when you create the environment. See image:
![image](https://github.com/run-ai/docs/assets/124490127/4ee1c8c0-d8cf-4e5c-af9e-824de59d4852)
So even if you do not choose to make changes to this, the field is there. You can add more than one env variable.

Maybe this:
```suggestion
4. In the *Environment* pane, select an environment from the list. Use the *Search environments* if you do not see your environment listed. Press *New environment* to add a new environment to the system. Press *More settings* to edit or add an `Environment variable`, or to edit the *Command* and *Arguments* field for the environment you selected.
```
